how to create a zoetrope for a fun
novelty project try making a zoetrope at
home you will need plastic coffee can
lid a strip of white paper 20 inches by
one and a half inches tall a strip a
black paper 20 inches by three inches
tall blue rubber cement or tape a craft
knife a pencil and a ruler step 1
plan out your animation assume there
will be about 12 cells or steps the best
animations for a zoetrope are cyclical
like a man walking or a Sun rising and
setting step 2 place the can lid flat
side down step 3 gently roll the white
paper into a tube and place it into the
lid so that the rim of the lid supports
the tube of paper you will have a drum
with an open end in the lid as the
bottom step 4 use the pencil to lightly
mark where the inside edge overlaps the
inside of the white paper step 5
lay the white paper flat and measure the
distance from that inside edge to the
sheet of the mark this will be the
longer distance to the mark you made
step 6
divide your distance by 12 or the number
of steps in your animation and Mark a
light line at the bottom edge of the
paper to divide each cell step 7
sketch out your animation beginning to
the left cell and moving right along
each cell step 8 gently reroll the white
sheet and place it back into the lid to
make sure all of your cells will be
shown step 9 place the black paper flat
with the white paper on top and flush
along the long edge make sure the light
lines you made in step 6 run along the
middle of the black sheet
step 10 use the edge of a white paper to
draw a line down the length of the black
paper it will run down the middle step
continue the marks you made on the white
sheet onto the black sheet they should
intersect the long line you made in step
9 step 12 move the white sheet to 1/8
inches inside the opposite edge of the
black sheet step 13 extend the lines
along from the white sheet to the edge
of the black sheet remove the white
sheet the sense of small lines you
copied onto the black sheet should line
up all the way down the black sheet step
14 use the ruler and pencil to connect
the sets of marks you made in the black
sheet
step fifteen using the lines you made in
step thirteen as guides cut windows out
of the black sheet with the craft knife
the windows should start in the middle
run about one inch down the line and be
about an eighth inch wide step 16
carefully find the center of the lid and
cut a 3/8 inch wide X in the top step 17
run a light bead of glue along the
inside edge of the lids lip step 18
gently roll the black sheet and place it
in the lid so that the slits are
furthest away from the lid step 19
gently press the black paper out against
the lids lip so that it bonds to the
glue on the lid set aside to dry
step 20 poke the pencil down through the
X you had to cut so that it sticks out
the bottom
the brass eraser holder should snag on
the cut edges of the lids X step 21
gently roll the white sheet and place it
inside the drum so the bottom of the
animation rests on the lid step 22 clasp
the pencil between your palms and slowly
rotate the drum while looking through
windows from the outside into the
opposite side of the drum step 23 watch
your animation and glorious zoetrope
vision did you know a convection powered
version of the zoetrope is built around
180 AD by the Chinese inventor
Tang Huang